story recapped here today i'm going to explain
a mystery thriller film called what lies below
spoilers ahead watch out and take care liberty
wells is a 16 year old high school student who
attends summer camp regularly while reading a book
on a bench a young boy takes a picture without
her consent causing her to shout at him and get
tommy's attention who she happens to have a crush
on shortly after her mom michelle picks her up
she tries to converse with her daughter but libby
seems preoccupied with reading her book michelle
turns on the radio to try and make libby smile
but she just gets annoyed she teases libby about
having a crush on tommy and she defensively denies
it both of them have a quiet road trip back home
they stop halfway as michelle lets her daughter
drive the car at first her mother is worried about
her skills but libby says she can manage to drive
as they drive slowly she sees a for sale sign of
their property and almost hits a tree her mother
explains that it's for her college education
as money runs tight at the moment she asks
about the new watch that her mother is wearing to
which she replies that it is a gift from someone
finally they arrive home safely michelle calls
john her new boyfriend and libby sees him for the
first time he gets out of the lake to meet her
and give her a gift she opens the box and sees
a bracelet with the navajo tribe stone of life he
explains the origin of the bracelet and chooses to
give it to her because she loves archaeology libby
gives a timid smile and expresses her gratitude
in her room she looks for an outfit
that she thinks would impress john
she puts on a blue dress and heads downstairs
to say hi to john as they prepare dinner
she takes a glimpse of him while he
reaches for something in the cupboard
michelle notices that libby dressed differently
that evening and compliments her appearance
out of curiosity libby asks how the both of them
met and her mother explains that on a typical
day of writing on the porch john just appeared
john explains that he is an aquatic geneticist
he is part of a research team about freshwater
animals and tries to solve problems in nature
he continues to demonstrate his study using two
glasses of water and ice as the two women listen
attentively she begins to feel attracted to john
finding herself twirling her hair as he speaks
just like her mother john coughs excessively after
eating a piece of vegetable michelle approaches
him and hugs him after he apologizes while they
embrace he touches libby on the shoulder and
smiles at her this gives her a weird and confusing
feeling she has difficulty sleeping that night
because john's touch bothers her so much she goes
downstairs to grab a drink from the fridge but
hears noises from her mom's bedroom which sounds
like she is making love with john she takes a peek
through a small gap at the bottom of the door but
someone approaches so she rushes back to her room
because of this she even forgets to close her door
john passes by and takes a look at her while she
pretends to sleep the following day libby wakes
up and finds her mother and john in the kitchen
having a moment she disturbs them by entering the
room abruptly michelle tells her that the three
of them will be going on a hike she reminds her
mom that it is the 28th of august a special day
for the both of them and they should spend
time together instead they both go outside
in a nearby tree libby digs a hole using a
gardening shovel she understand cans that are
labeled with her family members names she opens a
tin can and slides a note inside after kissing it
she hands over a tin can to her mother but she
does not put anything libby gets sad over this
and tells her that michelle never cared about
anything every year libby makes it a tradition
to put letters in the cans intended for her
family members michelle explains that she
stopped making letters because as a child she
felt unwanted in her family after their argument
libby becomes quiet and decides to go for a walk
upon picking up a rock a centipede crawls on her
hand she gets frightened by this and almost steps
on it just in time jon stops her by saying that
it is a scala pendra a rare species of centipede
libby tells him that it bit her but jon explains
that it is just trying to protect its offspring
as he lifts a piece of wood that reveals other
centipedes hiding under it she shows him the
bite mark on her hand and he blows it carefully
he comforts her that she will be okay despite
the bite being venomous they continue to share
a conversation while taking a walk in the nearby
lake john apologizes to libby for disturbing their
mother-daughter time and suggests that it would be
better if he leaves she disagrees telling him that
he should stay back at the house libby goes to
her mother's room who currently has a stomachache
she apologizes to her mother for her behavior
earlier michelle apologizes as well for telling
her too much information about their family
problems they both make up and forgive each other
michelle also breaks big news to libby
she and john are planning to get married
libby says that she wants them to be happy but
she is obviously not thrilled about it one issue
is that john does not know michelle's actual age
he thinks that she is 35 when she is actually 42.
libby researches more about scolopendras the
type of centipede she saw earlier on her laptop
from her window she sees john arrive at the house
after jogging she takes a peek at him removing his
shirt and warming down after exercising she lies
down on her bed and sees the bracelet from john
she looks at it intently and decides to offer
him a drink she knocks on the basement store
where john conducts his study and research he
does not respond so she enters and sees the
basement completely dark john hears libby and
asks her to turn her flashlight off she finally
sees him holding a red light and offers him some
soda he respectfully declines as sodium is bad
for him so he chores her to his workplace instead
big aquariums fill the room john keeps lampreys
these are an ancient extant lineage of jawless
fish that have lived for millions of years
lampreys are parasitic and can adapt to their
hosts and their survival rate is highly unmatched
he discusses more about the fish with libby
who seems interested both in the topic and john
libby asks about john's marriage proposal to her
mother he responds by saying that michelle is very
special to her and that they are very much happy
together both of them plan on getting more samples
from the lake so they ride on an inflatable
raft to go through the river libby asks john
questions about his past as he paddles he tries
to reach for a cage he uses to get samples and
asks libby to hold his legs while he stretches his
arms they talk about libby's plans for college and
how passionate she is in archaeology when all of a
sudden her period arrives and blood seeps through
the raft john reacts quickly by covering it with
his shirt this frightens and embarrasses libby
but john also apologizes for how he reacted
the situation grows extremely awkward and
uncomfortable for libby once they got home libby
takes a shower and removes the bracelet that
john gave her he knocks and checks up on her
but she does not respond libby is starting to
feel a weird vibe toward him she does not mind
his questions until she hears the door open
john enters the bathroom without libby knowing
while she showers john sniffs her from the shower
curtain as if he is craving for her unsatisfied
he also sniffs the shirt that was used to cover
libby's blood in the raft she senses that
someone is inside the bathroom she checks
but john makes his way out in time she checks
on her mother to see if she's feeling better
but john is currently massaging michelle on
the back when she enters the room john gives
off an intense stare at her so she closes the door
libby tries to go to the basement but it is locked
she tries to access it from outside the house
but all light sources are blocked and sealed
worried that john is hiding something she tries to
contact her best friend marley but the reception
is unstable she tries talking to marley using her
laptop to invite her to come over however marley
says she is unable to go and asks if there is a
problem libby writes back that her mom is marrying
a freak of nature libby hears a knock on her door
and finds out that jon prepared a sandwich for her
to make up for the awkward situation at the lake
that night a red light wakes her up she walks
to her window to find its source she sees john
walking toward the red light coming from the lake
john submerges himself in the water and the light
goes off libby panics and gets confused about
what she saw she tries to wake her mom up but
michelle is unresponsive she goes to the lake to
she investigate him about what she saw he denies
it by saying that he suffers from sleepwalking
livy walks out unconvinced the
following day michelle calls her
she finds her mother in the bathroom throwing up
at this point michelle looks greatly unwell so
she asks libby to drive to the pharmacy and
get her some medicines in a pregnancy test
libby suggests that they call an ambulance
instead because she does not have a license yet
libby asks where john is he is out for his daily
jogs and won't be back for at least an hour
her mom experiences more pain so she does not have
a choice but to rush to town at the pharmacy she
sees jon walk by with another woman she follows
them but the cashier stops her as she forgot to
pay libby gets home and sees marley in the living
room waiting for her she heads directly to her
mother to give her some medicine john makes her
extremely uncomfortable while she is in the room
michelle continues to rest and john assures that
she will be taken care of before leaving john
gives her a menacing smile marley tells libby that
he finds jon hot and is thrilled to talk about him
libby tells her what she saw last night at the
lake how jon grabbed her and the uncomfortable
things she experienced libby asks if marley could
stay the night but she has an event to attend with
her father marley gets furious after libby's
confessions she tells her that she will let
michelle know that jon is acting inappropriately
libby tries to eavesdrop on the conversation but
she fails to hear anything while waiting for
marley to come down she falls asleep instead
she wakes up and heads to the living room john and
michelle are watching clips of libya when she was
young michelle tells her that she is pregnant this
underwhelms libby and michelle gets disappointed
in her reaction she gets mad at libby for always
coming up with negative comments about the men
that she dates she calms down when jon tells her
that it is okay as he hugs michelle he grins at
libby his eyes deform and she pulls her mother
away from him michelle slaps her daughter out of
anger because of this libby tells john the actual
age of her mother it disappoints jon very much
causing him to walk out the door upon exiting
michelle stops him and his body language shifts
totally the mother and daughter continue to
argue in the living room that same night libby
guards the house by staying in the living room
after hearing thumping sounds from above she
goes outside to check if something is on the roof
she goes around the house as she is very curious
about the noises she also looks over the lake
for any signs of john and points the flashlight
everywhere but finds nothing back inside she hears
john and michelle making love in their bedroom
she takes a peek inside and sees john's body
deform as if something is under his skin
she goes to her room walks back to check on
them again but they are nowhere to be seen
libby goes to the lake and finds something
in the water that looks like a spaceship
she uses the car's light to take a better look at
it but she forgets to set it to park when she got
out this causes the vehicle to be partly submerged
in water she turns on the light on a high beam and
finds out that it is actually where the red light
came from it confirms her theory that jon is not
human she tries to call marley for help but here's
a ringtone that seems to come from the basement
because of the blue light she is able to see
symbols on her wrist it came from the bracelet
that john gave she sees her mother tied with
half her body submerged in a tank she sees
the same symbols on her mother's wrist and the
basement walls michelle gains consciousness and
freaks out jon comes down but his feet look
entirely like that of a different creature
instantly he returns to his human form he checks
on michelle who is obviously in great pain and
screeches in an alien-like manner she gives birth
to what seems to be a creature similar to john
however it does not survive which devastates jon
so he goes outside trying to revive the creature
libby scratches a part of the window to spy on
john she sees him transferring a blue light to
the creature using his mouth she continues to
try and untangle michelle from the tank libby
locks the door and hears the creature snarling
outside the basement she sees marley's phone
and dials 9-1-1 to ask for help she sees a device
that causes the signal not to work in their house
john tries to talk to libby so he could get in
he becomes more agitated and takes his real form
she breaks the device while john smashes the
window using his hand libby is panicking and gets
even more scared when she sees marley being eaten
by lampreys while hiding under the desk john grabs
and strangles her a long and animal-like tongue
flicks out of his mouth but she manages to fight
back by pouring a bucket of salt on him this seems
to be john's weakness she gets michelle out of the
tank while john is still unconscious michelle
apologizes to libby for not believing in her as
they try to escape and run away her mother falls
to the ground causing them to slow down someone
puts a bag over libby's head and she wakes up in
an underground place where she is tied clones of
john start appearing and smashing the room walls
revealing other dead bodies in tanks libby screams
out of fear and agony when one of the clones
approach her a blue kind of orb is transferred
to libby from john's mouth she refuses to swallow
it but he forces her to do so this knocks her
unconscious again she wakes up with rashes all
over her face and finds that she is trapped in
a diamond-shaped tank along with other bodies she
becomes restless as she panics eventually as the
water fills the tank libby smiles in a deranged
way subscribe to watch more videos like this turn
on notifications and leave a like it really
helps the channel out thank you for watching